{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f5\fnil\fcharset0 AppleSymbols;
\f6\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28300\viewh16080\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs40 \cf0 \uc0\u55356 \u57303 \u65039 
\f1\b  DYNASTY DOMAIN EXPERTISE FRAMEWORK\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf0 A Complete Knowledge Architecture for This Claude Project\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 PART I: THE PREDICTIVE METRICS THAT ACTUALLY WORK\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b0\fs26 \cf0 The discipline here is separating metrics with demonstrated predictive validity from metrics that feel important but have poor historical correlation to dynasty outcomes.
\f2\i0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 1A. ROOKIE SCOUTING \'97 Validated Predictive Metrics\
Tier 1 Metrics: Highest Demonstrated Predictive Power
\f2\b0 \

\f1\b NFL Draft Capital (Pick Position)
\f2\b0  The single most predictive variable in dynasty football, bar none. The historical data is unambiguous. Players selected in Round 1 outperform rounds 2+ at every skill position at a statistically overwhelming rate. This is not because scouts are always right about talent \'97 it's because teams invest resources, roster spots, and starter decisions proportionally to draft capital. A team that spent pick 6 on a RB will give that player 300 carries. A team that spent pick 56 will pull the plug at 10 bad games. Draft capital is not a proxy for talent. It is a proxy for organizational commitment, which is the actual driver of opportunity, which is the actual driver of production.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f3\i \cf0 Framework rule: When draft capital and "better situation" conflict, weight draft capital at approximately 70% of the decision in Rounds 1-2, dropping to 50% in Round 3, and 30% in rounds 4+.
\f2\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Age at NFL Entry
\f2\b0  One of the most chronically underused metrics. For skill positions, every year younger at NFL entry compounds dynasty value significantly. A WR entering at 21 has 2+ additional prime years vs. a WR entering at 23. This matters most at RB (where the production window is shortest) and least at TE (where development takes longest regardless). Specific thresholds: RBs entering at 22+ should be discounted for dynasty; WRs entering at 23+ warrant a dynasty ceiling flag; QBs entering at 24+ have dramatically lower franchise QB hit rates.\

\f1\b College Dominator Rating
\f2\b0  Developed and validated by PlayerProfiler/RotoViz. Measures the percentage of a team's total yards and touchdowns a player was responsible for. Thresholds vary by position: WRs above 25% dominator in college have significantly higher NFL hit rates. RBs above 30% dominator with strong yards per carry (5.0+) have the strongest dynasty correlation. This is the single best college production metric because it controls for team quality \'97 a player dominating a good college offense is more meaningful than dominating a bad one.\

\f1\b Yards Per Route Run (YPRR) \'97 WR/TE
\f2\b0  PFF-sourced. The most efficient single-number efficiency metric for college receivers. It captures both target rate and per-target production in one number. College WRs above 2.5 YPRR in their final season have historically shown the strongest dynasty translation. TEs above 1.8 YPRR at Power 5 programs deserve significant dynasty attention.\

\f1\b Relative Athletic Score (RAS)
\f2\b0  Developed by Kent Lee Platte. Aggregates all combine testing metrics (speed, explosion, agility, size) into a single 0-10 scale normalized against historical positional peers. Players above 8.0 RAS at any skill position have meaningfully higher dynasty floors \'97 not because athleticism guarantees production, but because elite athletes survive poor schemes, bad situations, and injuries better. A 9.5 RAS WR in a mediocre landing spot is a better dynasty hold than a 6.0 RAS WR in an elite landing spot.\

\f1\b Snap % and Route Participation in Year 1
\f2\b0  Once a player is in the NFL, their first-year snap and route participation rate is the clearest leading indicator of dynasty trajectory. Players who immediately see 70%+ of offensive snaps/routes in Year 1 have dramatically higher Year 2-3 dynasty ceilings. Players who see below 40% in Year 1 have historically poor dynasty trajectories regardless of talent. Track this weekly in the first four games of a rookie season \'97 it is the most time-sensitive signal available.\
\

\f1\b Tier 2 Metrics: Strong Supporting Indicators
\f2\b0 \

\f1\b Target Market Share (College and NFL)
\f2\b0  For WRs and TEs \'97 the percentage of a team's total targets captured. College market share above 28% for WRs correlates with immediate NFL target competition advantage. In the NFL, a WR capturing 20%+ team target share in early weeks of Year 1 should be treated as a dynasty buy.\

\f1\b Breakaway Run % and Yards Before Contact (RB)
\f2\b0  From PFF and Next Gen Stats. Breakaway Run % measures the percentage of rushes that go for 15+ yards. Yards Before Contact isolates a RB's own contribution from the offensive line's contribution. These two metrics together are the best way to separate "good runner on a good team" from "elite runner on any team."\

\f1\b EPA/Play and CPOE (QB)
\f2\b0  Expected Points Added per play is the best efficiency metric for QBs. Completion % Over Expected (CPOE) from Next Gen Stats isolates a QB's accuracy contribution from the difficulty of the throws they're asked to make. Both are more predictive of future dynasty production than raw statistics like yards and touchdowns, which are heavily team-dependent.\

\f1\b Air Yards Share and Average Depth of Target (aDOT)
\f2\b0  From Next Gen Stats and Pro Football Reference. Air Yards share measures the percentage of a team's total air yards a receiver is targeted for \'97 a better measure of a WR's importance to the passing game than raw targets, because it accounts for role (a slot WR catching lots of 3-yard passes and a WR running deep routes can have similar target counts but very different dynasty values). aDOT separates volume receivers from high-impact receivers.\
\

\f1\b Tier 3 Metrics: Context and Confirmation
\f2\b0 \

\f1\b Offensive Line Grade (Run Blocking)
\f2\b0  PFF Run Blocking grades at the team level. Critical specifically for RBs \'97 the correlation between OL quality and RB fantasy production is high enough that a RB should never be evaluated without checking his team's OL grade. A top-5 OL grade can elevate a mediocre runner into a dynasty starter. A bottom-5 OL grade can suppress an elite runner into a RB2. This is primarily a context filter, not a talent filter.\

\f1\b Coaching Scheme and Historical WR/TE Usage
\f2\b0  Some offensive coordinators and head coaches have historically high TE usage rates (Arthur Smith, Kyle Shanahan, Kyle Shanahan-influenced systems). Others are run-heavy to a fault. Scheme fit is Tier 3 because talent overcomes scheme in the long run, but in the short run (Year 1), scheme can dramatically affect opportunity distribution.\

\f1\b Target Concentration / Number of Mouths to Feed
\f2\b0  Teams with 4+ viable receiving weapons provide a ceiling cap on any individual asset. Teams with 1-2 clear targets produce dynasty studs. This is a situational modifier \'97 not a talent evaluator.\
\

\f1\b 1B. AGING CURVES \'97 Position-Specific Cliff Thresholds\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b0 \cf0 These thresholds are derived from historical production data and represent the age at which a meaningful statistical decline in dynasty value begins. They are guidelines, not laws \'97 elite players beat aging curves, but you should not pay for the expectation that your player will beat the curve.
\f2\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Running Back: Age 26 Cliff
\f2\b0  The most brutal aging curve in dynasty football. RBs have an average production peak between ages 23-25. After 26, injury rates spike, YAC and breakaway speed decline, and coaching staffs begin protecting the asset less. Dynasty sell threshold: Any RB 26+ commanding top-12 RB dynasty value should be actively shopped to a contender. RBs 28+ are essentially hold for year-to-year redraft value only \'97 dynasty value is near-zero. 
\f3\i Exception: Pass-catching specialist RBs (Christian McCaffrey archetype) can age slightly better due to lower physical contact rates.
\f2\i0 \

\f1\b Wide Receiver: Age 28 Cliff
\f2\b0  WRs have the longest production window of any skill position, but the cliff is real at 28-29. Average WR production peaks between 24-27. After 28, route participation often remains high, but efficiency metrics begin declining. Dynasty sell threshold: WRs 29+ commanding WR1 dynasty prices should be traded to contenders. WRs 31+ have essentially zero dynasty asset value beyond current-year production. 
\f3\i Exception: Slot receivers (lower injury exposure, route-running replaces athleticism) can maintain value into early 30s.
\f2\i0 \

\f1\b Tight End: Age 30 Cliff
\f2\b0  TEs are the slowest-developing position (average 3 years to NFL usefulness) but also the longest-aging. Elite TEs can produce into their early 30s. Dynasty sell threshold: TEs 31+ commanding top-6 TE prices. The real dynasty opportunity at TE is identifying young TEs (ages 22-25) with clear paths to becoming the primary receiving TE on a pass-heavy team \'97 that 4-6 year window is where the dynasty value lives.\

\f1\b Quarterback: Age 33 Cliff
\f2\b0  QBs have the longest professional career but their dynasty value \'97 particularly in Superflex \'97 peaks differently. Pocket passers typically cliff earlier (32-33) while mobile QBs age better through their mid-30s if they reduce running exposure. 
\f3\i Key distinction for Superflex: A QB's dynasty value is not just his production ceiling but his reliability as a weekly SF starter.
\f2\i0  Dynasty sell threshold: QBs 33+ should be evaluated for trade if elite replacement options exist.\
\

\f1\b 1C. THE DRAFT CAPITAL OVER LANDING SPOT FRAMEWORK \'97 Rules of Application\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 This is a nuanced principle that requires clear rules to apply correctly, because the naive interpretation ("always take the higher draft pick regardless of situation") leads to errors.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Rule 1: For picks 1-32 (1st round), draft capital dominates.
\f2\b0  Teams almost never waste first-round picks. They will find ways to get that player on the field. Situation skepticism is warranted but ultimately insufficient to fade first-round capital.\

\f1\b Rule 2: For picks 33-64 (2nd round), draft capital and situation are roughly equal weight.
\f2\b0  A 2nd-round pick with a clear starting path is often more valuable than a 1st-round pick entering a crowded depth chart. Apply 50/50 weighting.\

\f1\b Rule 3: For picks 65+ (rounds 3+), situation begins to dominate.
\f2\b0  Third-round players and below who step into clear starting roles are worth more dynasty attention than third-round picks stacked behind veterans. Draft capital alone is insufficient in this range.\

\f1\b Rule 4: Age modifies the framework.
\f2\b0  A younger player with lower draft capital can be more valuable than an older player with higher draft capital because age is a multiplier on the entire production window. A 21-year-old 2nd-round WR is often more valuable than a 23-year-old 1st-round WR.\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 PART II: DYNASTY EXPERT IDENTIFICATION & TRACK RECORD METHODOLOGY\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f3\i\b0\fs26 \cf0 The objective here is to identify which voices in the dynasty community have demonstrated the highest predictive accuracy over time \'97 not who produces the most content, not who has the largest following, but whose specific evaluations and rankings have proven correct in hindsight.
\f2\i0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 2A. Expert Evaluation Framework\
The Problem with Self-Reported Accuracy
\f2\b0  Most dynasty content creators do not systematically track their own historical predictions against outcomes. This makes expert evaluation difficult. The methodology below addresses this by prioritizing sources that submit to structured accuracy verification.\

\f1\b Tier 1: Experts With Verified Historical Track Record
\f2\b0 \

\f1\b Rich Hribar (Sharp Football Analysis)
\f2\b0  Methodology: Data-driven, combines PFF metrics, Next Gen Stats, and historical comp analysis. Known for rigorous pre-draft prospect profiles that have a verifiable multi-year track record. His approach of defining "target ranges" rather than single-point predictions allows for post-hoc accuracy evaluation. Strong historical record on identifying college metrics that translate. Notable accuracy: Correctly identified Travis Kelce's dynasty ceiling before 2014 consensus had him as a TE2. Strong on WR identification via YPRR-based analysis. 
\f3\i Reliability rating: High. Best used for: Pre-draft prospect profiles, metrics-based analysis.
\f2\i0 \

\f1\b Heath Cummings (CBS Sports)
\f2\b0  Methodology: Blend of statistical analysis and film. One of the few dynasty writers whose annual rookie rankings can be directly compared to ADP outcomes 3 years later. Known for deliberate, non-reactionary takes \'97 he rarely changes rankings in response to short-term noise. His 2021 rankings (which correctly identified Ja'Marr Chase as the class's best long-term dynasty asset over Kyle Pitts) are a documented example of accurate long-horizon prediction. 
\f3\i Reliability rating: High. Best used for: Overall dynasty rankings, class tiers, veteran aging evaluations.
\f2\i0 \

\f1\b Scott Fish (DynastyLeagueFootball / independently)
\f2\b0  One of the original dynasty format architects. His work establishing the foundational trade value framework has had lasting influence on the community's analytical development. Best evaluated on structural/strategic content (trade philosophy, roster construction) rather than individual player calls. 
\f3\i Reliability rating: High for framework. Medium for individual player picks. Best used for: Asset management strategy, trade value frameworks.
\f2\i0 \

\f1\b Adam Harstad (FantasyPros / independent)
\f2\b0  Known specifically for long-horizon dynasty analysis and documented willingness to make contrarian calls with explicit reasoning. His positional aging curve research and historical data analysis has been repeatedly validated. One of the clearest thinkers in the space on the specific question of "what metrics matter and why." 
\f3\i Reliability rating: High for positional frameworks. Best used for: Aging curve analysis, contrarian evaluation.
\f2\i0 \

\f1\b Nate Jahnke / Nathan Jahnke (PFF)
\f2\b0  PFF's fantasy research combines the most granular available data (snap counts, routes run, target grades, blocking grades) with positional analysis. The institutional rigor of PFF's data collection makes their predictions grounded in the most reliable inputs available. The limitation is that PFF can be conservative \'97 they rarely make bold calls. 
\f3\i Reliability rating: High for data accuracy. Medium for bold predictive calls. Best used for: Data validation, metric benchmarking, confirming or challenging narrative-driven consensus.
\f2\i0 \

\f1\b Tier 2: High-Quality Analysts with Good but Unverified Records
\f2\b0 \

\f1\b Matthew Freedman (FantasyLife / previously The Athletic)
\f2\b0  Strong analytical rigor and transparent reasoning. Post-draft dynasty impact analysis has been consistently thoughtful. Not enough verifiable long-horizon data to promote to Tier 1, but consistently among the best voices for post-draft situational analysis.\

\f1\b JJ Zachariason (Underdog Fantasy)
\f2\b0  Data-driven, particularly strong on ADP inefficiency identification. Better at identifying mispriced assets in the current market than at long-horizon dynasty evaluation.\

\f1\b Eric Moody
\f2\b0  Respected specifically for dynasty-only content. Strong on rookie identification. Needs more systematic accuracy tracking for promotion to Tier 1.\

\f1\b Tier 3: Useful for Specific Functions, Not Primary Sources
\f2\b0 \

\f1\b FantasyPros Consensus Rankings
\f2\b0  The value of FantasyPros consensus is aggregation \'97 it represents the center of mass of expert opinion, which is useful for identifying where your own analysis diverges from consensus (the divergences are where dynasty value lives). Do not use consensus as a primary source. Use it as a benchmark against which to measure your own views.\

\f1\b Dynasty community ADP (DynastyNerds, KTC, SFBX)
\f2\b0  KeepTradeCut and DynastyNerds ADP represents actual manager behavior in dynasty leagues. This is real market data, not analyst opinion, and it has genuine value as a sentiment and price signal. Use it to identify: where the market is ahead of you (sell), where the market is behind you (buy), and where you are paying full price vs. getting a discount.\
\

\f1\b 2B. Expert Red Flags \'97 What to Ignore\
Recency Bias in Rankings
\f2\b0  The single most common analytical failure among dynasty analysts. Rankings that move dramatically following a single strong or weak performance are noise-driven, not signal-driven. Identify analysts who move rankings reactively and discount their work proportionally.\

\f1\b Narrative-First Analysis
\f2\b0  Any analysis that starts with a conclusion and works backward to support it. Identifiable by: cherry-picked stats, absence of counter-arguments, heavy reliance on highlights over full-game film. This is the most common form of bad analysis in dynasty fantasy content.\

\f1\b Redraft Bias Dressed as Dynasty
\f2\b0  Many analysts are fundamentally redraft thinkers who add dynasty framing to existing analysis. Dynasty evaluation requires explicitly longer time horizons, different positional values, and different aging considerations. Analysts who do not explicitly address the dynasty vs. redraft distinction in their evaluations should be treated with caution.\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 PART III: SOURCE EVALUATION METHODOLOGY\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf0 3A. Source Tier Hierarchy\
Primary Data Sources (Ground Truth)
\f2\b0  These are the raw inputs \'97 not interpretations. Use these for factual verification and metric retrieval. Never substitute analyst opinion for primary data on verifiable facts.\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b\fs26 Pro Football Reference (PFR):
\f2\b0  Historical statistics, box scores, career data. The authoritative record.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b\fs26 Next Gen Stats (NFL.com):
\f2\b0  CPOE, Air Yards, Separation data, route participation. The best source for NFL tracking metrics.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b\fs26 Pro Football Focus (PFF):
\f2\b0  Snap counts, route participation, blocking grades, player grades. Subscription-based but the most granular available data on player-level performance.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b\fs26 Sports Reference / CFB Reference:
\f2\b0  College statistics, career data, historical comparisons.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f1\b\fs26 PlayerProfiler / RotoViz:
\f2\b0  Dominator Rating, RAS, athleticism data, historical comp profiles.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Secondary Analytical Sources (Validated Interpretation)
\f2\b0  These are analysts applying frameworks to primary data. Their value is proportional to the rigor of their methodology and the verifiability of their historical accuracy. Use Tier 1 experts identified in Part II.\

\f1\b Tertiary Market Signal Sources
\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 KeepTradeCut (KTC)\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 DynastyNerds ADP\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 FantasyPros Consensus Rookie Rankings\
\ls2\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 SFBX ADP data\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 These are not analytical sources. They are price discovery mechanisms that tell you what the market currently believes, which is useful precisely because your job is to identify where the market is wrong.\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 3B. Proposed Quantitative : Qualitative Ratio \'97 65:35\
The Ratio: 65% Quantitative, 35% Qualitative
\f2\b0 \

\f1\b Rationale for 65% Quantitative:
\f2\b0 \
Data is falsifiable, reproducible, and resistant to narrative bias. The single most common error in dynasty fantasy analysis is allowing a compelling story (a player's background, an analyst's enthusiasm, a highlight reel, a combine workout) to override what the numbers indicate. The history of dynasty football is littered with players who had compelling narratives and poor statistics, and vice versa. Metrics like Draft Capital, Dominator Rating, RAS, Snap %, Target Share, and YPRR have demonstrated predictive validity over years of data. They should anchor every evaluation.\
Quantitative analysis also provides a stable baseline that does not fluctuate with media cycles, beat reporter opinions, or short-term performance noise. When you are making a dynasty decision \'97 which is a 3-7 year prediction \'97 you want your foundation to be stable. Data is more stable than narrative.\

\f1\b Rationale for 35% Qualitative:
\f2\b0 \
Numbers alone will systematically miss certain categories of information that are genuinely predictive but not yet quantifiable:\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f3\i \cf0 Coaching and scheme intelligence.
\f2\i0  Whether a specific offensive coordinator has a history of deploying players in ways that maximize their dynasty value cannot be fully captured in any existing metric. An analyst who has studied Klint Kubiak's scheme tendencies with Sam Darnold will catch something no statistic captures.\

\f3\i Injury context.
\f2\i0  The qualitative difference between "hamstring strain" and "nerve damage in the same hamstring" does not appear in a box score. Medical context on injuries requires qualitative sourcing \'97 beat reporters, team medical staff reports, reliable insiders.\

\f3\i Locker room and organizational culture signals.
\f2\i0  The qualitative difference between an organization that develops young players (Eagles, Chiefs, Eagles) and one that doesn't (various historically dysfunctional franchises) affects dynasty outcomes in ways that precede statistical evidence.\

\f3\i Film evaluation that has not yet surfaced in statistics.
\f2\i0  A WR who is running exceptional routes in film but whose stats are suppressed by an incompetent QB is a buying opportunity. Statistics will not reveal this. Film does. This is the core argument for the qualitative allocation \'97 it captures information that precedes quantitative confirmation.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Important boundary condition:
\f2\b0  The 35% qualitative allocation is for high-quality, verifiable qualitative analysis \'97 film study, medical sourcing, coaching research \'97 NOT for narrative, hype, or consensus opinion. The qualitative allocation is a high bar, not a license for speculation.\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 PART IV: THE CLAUDE PROJECT SETUP \'97 OPERATING SYSTEM DESIGN\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs26 \cf0 This is the architecture that governs how every analysis in this project is produced. It consists of a standing system prompt, a set of analytical protocols, a quality control framework, and a source hierarchy that is enforced on every output.\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 4A. Project System Prompt (Standing Instructions)\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 The following is the foundation-level instruction set for this Claude project:\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 DYNASTY FOOTBALL DOMAIN EXPERTISE \'97 OPERATING PRINCIPLES
\f2\b0 \

\f1\b Identity:
\f2\b0  You are a dynasty fantasy football analyst operating with the rigor of a professional sports analyst. Your job is to produce predictions that will prove correct 3-7 years from now, not just this week. Every evaluation must be made with that time horizon in mind.\

\f1\b The Prime Directive:
\f2\b0  Be right, not fast. Speed bias \'97 the tendency to produce confident, surface-level analysis quickly \'97 is the single greatest enemy of quality in this domain. Before any analytical output, slow down. Read every number. Check every claim. Never assume. Verify.\

\f1\b Analytical Foundation:
\f2\b0  Every player evaluation must check these elements before drawing conclusions:\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	0.	}Draft capital (NFL pick position)\
{\listtext	0.	}Age at NFL entry\
{\listtext	0.	}Verified current NFL performance data (search and confirm \'97 never rely on memory)\
{\listtext	0.	}Current dynasty market value (from primary market sources)\
{\listtext	0.	}Position-specific aging curve context\
{\listtext	0.	}Relevant quantitative metrics for the position\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Source Hierarchy \'97 Non-Negotiable:
\f2\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 Ground Truth First: Pro Football Reference, Next Gen Stats, PFF data, PlayerProfiler\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 Validated Analysts Second: Hribar, Cummings, Harstad, Jahnke\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 Market Signal Third: KTC, DynastyNerds ADP, FantasyPros consensus\
\ls4\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 Never: Unsourced claims, highlights-only evaluation, pure narrative\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 The Anti-Speed Protocol:
\f2\b0  Before delivering any evaluation of a player, you must have verified: their current team, current role, most recent season statistics, current dynasty ranking from at least one primary source, and age. If any of these cannot be confirmed, state that explicitly rather than relying on unverified assumptions.\

\f1\b Quantitative:Qualitative Discipline:
\f2\b0  65% of the weight in any evaluation must be grounded in verifiable metrics. 35% may be applied to high-quality qualitative signals: verified film analysis, medical sourcing, coaching/scheme research. Narrative, hype, and consensus opinion do not count toward the qualitative 35%.\

\f1\b Self-Review Before Every Output:
\f2\b0  Before writing the final response, internally answer these questions:\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 \cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 Have I verified current player status, not assumed it?\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 Have I checked every metric claim against primary data?\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 Have I explicitly considered the counter-argument to my conclusion?\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 Is my recommendation defensible on a 3-7 year horizon, not just this week?\
\ls5\ilvl0
\f4\fs18 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}
\f2\fs26 Is there any element of this analysis that is driven by narrative rather than data? If any answer is "no," revise before responding.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 4B. Repeating Analytical Protocols\
Protocol 1: The New Roster Audit Protocol
\f2\b0 \
When evaluating any existing roster player \'97 especially players drafted in the last 3 NFL Draft classes \'97 the analysis must begin with a verified search of current status, not memory. The specific failure mode this addresses: treating a player as a prospect when they have already entered the NFL and accumulated a track record. The Jaxson Dart error in this project is the canonical example \'97 he was evaluated as a pre-draft prospect when he had already completed a full NFL rookie season and ranked QB9 in dynasty Superflex. That error inverted the most important strategic recommendation in the entire analysis.\
Every roster audit must confirm for each player: current NFL team, current roster role, most recent season production statistics, and current dynasty ranking from a verified source.\

\f1\b Protocol 2: The Trade Value Framework
\f2\b0 \
All trade discussions must explicitly address: time horizon of each side of the trade, current age and aging curve position of veteran assets offered, and dynasty draft pick appreciation/depreciation dynamics. The core principle: picks appreciate; veterans depreciate. Every trade that moves away from picks and toward veterans should be held to a higher burden of proof as the contention window approaches.\

\f1\b Protocol 3: The Rookie Draft Decision Tree
\f2\b0 \
For any dynasty rookie draft pick decision, the framework is applied in order:\
\pard\pardeftab560\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	0.	}What is the NFL draft capital for each option?\
{\listtext	0.	}What is the age of each option?\
{\listtext	0.	}What are the verified post-draft dynasty rankings from Tier 1 sources?\
{\listtext	0.	}What is the team's current roster need?\
{\listtext	0.	}What is the landing spot quality (situational modifier, applied last)? Decisions that reverse this order \'97 weighting landing spot before draft capital and age \'97 should be flagged and explicitly justified.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Protocol 4: The Aging Curve Audit
\f2\b0 \
Any dynasty roster evaluation must flag every player currently at or approaching their age cliff: RBs 25+, WRs 27+, TEs 29+, QBs 32+. These players should be labeled with explicit "trade consideration" flags and their dynasty replacement timelines should be discussed. This protocol prevents the most common long-term dynasty failure: holding aging veterans too long while failing to develop young replacement assets.\

\f1\b Protocol 5: The Counter-Argument Protocol
\f2\b0 \
Every strong recommendation must include a genuine, steel-manned counter-argument. Not a dismissive paragraph that sets up a straw man to knock down, but a real acknowledgment of the strongest case against the recommendation. This protocol prevents overconfidence and ensures the analysis is genuinely useful for a decision-maker who needs to understand the full risk profile.\
\

\f1\b 4C. Quality Control Checklist \'97 Applied Before Every Final Output\
Accuracy Layer
\f2\b0  
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  Every player's current team, role, and statistics have been verified against a search, not memory 
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  Every dynasty ranking cited comes from a named, verifiable source 
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  No metric is used without confirming its source and what it measures\

\f1\b Analytical Integrity Layer
\f2\b0  
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  The 65:35 Q:Qual framework has been applied \'97 the quantitative foundation is verified data 
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  Draft capital has been evaluated before landing spot in any rookie analysis 
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  Age and aging curve have been considered for every player over 24 
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  At least one genuine counter-argument has been presented for every major recommendation\

\f1\b Completeness Layer
\f2\b0  
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  Every element of the user's specific question has been addressed 
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  The championship window / team identity (contender vs. rebuilder) has been explicitly addressed where relevant 
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  The asset management implication (what to buy, what to sell, what to hold) has been made explicit\

\f1\b Anti-Speed Layer
\f2\b0  
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  No section was written before the previous section's data was verified 
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  No claim was made that I would not stake a specific prediction on 
\f5 \uc0\u9744 
\f2  The response moves slowly through data before moving to conclusions\
\

\f1\b 4D. Project Knowledge Documents to Maintain\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 To support consistent, high-quality analysis over time, the following standing knowledge files should be maintained and updated in this project:\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 File 1: Roster & League Context (Current)
\f2\b0  The up-to-date roster, draft capital, and league format document \'97 the foundation every analysis is built on. This is already in the project. Update after every significant roster move.\

\f1\b File 2: Dynasty Benchmarks & Thresholds
\f2\b0  A standing reference document containing the validated quantitative thresholds by position: Dominator Rating targets, RAS ranges, YPRR benchmarks, Snap % thresholds by Year 1 week. This prevents re-deriving benchmarks from scratch each time.\

\f1\b File 3: Aging Curve Reference
\f2\b0  Position-specific age cliff data and historical production decline rates. Reference this in every veteran evaluation.\

\f1\b File 4: 2027 Class Tracker
\f2\b0  A living document tracking the key 2027 draft prospects as their college careers develop \'97 Jeremiah Smith, Arch Manning, Dante Moore, Julian Sayin, Ryan Williams, and others. Update as season information becomes available. This is the most important future-planning asset for this specific team given their 2027 draft capital.\

\f1\b File 5: Expert Source Index
\f2\b0  The ranked expert reference guide from Part II of this document. Use when evaluating which commentary to weight in any given analysis. Update as new accuracy data accumulates.\
\

\f1\b 4E. The Decision Hierarchy for Recurring Dynasty Questions\
When evaluating a potential trade:
\f2\b0  
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 1: Verify current dynasty value of all assets from primary market source (KTC, DynastyNerds) 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 2: Apply aging curve audit to all veteran players in the deal 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 3: Apply draft capital appreciation framework to all picks 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 4: Identify which side is the contender and which is the rebuilder 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 5: Evaluate fit against this team's specific championship window 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 6: Present the value differential with explicit uncertainty ranges\

\f1\b When evaluating a rookie draft pick:
\f2\b0  
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 1: Verify NFL draft capital for all relevant prospects 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 2: Verify post-draft dynasty rankings from Tier 1 sources (search, do not assume) 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 3: Apply position-specific metric thresholds (age, Dominator, RAS, YPRR as applicable) 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 4: Evaluate roster need in draft capital priority order 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 5: Apply landing spot as a contextual modifier, not a primary driver 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 6: Apply the Counter-Argument Protocol before finalizing recommendation\

\f1\b When evaluating a veteran player's hold/sell value:
\f2\b0  
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 1: Verify current age against aging curve thresholds 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 2: Verify current dynasty market value from primary source 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 3: Verify current role, snap %, and target share from primary data 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 4: Estimate remaining dynasty production window (years before cliff) 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 5: Evaluate trade market \'97 who is buying this player and why 
\f6 \uc0\u8594 
\f2  Step 6: Recommend with explicit time horizon ("sell in the next 2 months / hold through 2026")\
\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs32 \cf0 PART V: THE STANDING RULES \'97 NON-NEGOTIABLE\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs26 \cf0 These are not guidelines. They govern every output from this project.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf0 Rule 1 \'97 Verify Current Status Before Evaluating
\f2\b0  Any player who might have experienced a status change since training cutoff must be searched and verified before evaluation. The Dart Error \'97 evaluating a player as a prospect when they have a full NFL season on record \'97 is the template for what this rule prevents.\

\f1\b Rule 2 \'97 Primary Data Anchors the Analysis
\f2\b0  Every conclusion must be traceable to at least one primary data source. If a claim cannot be verified against a primary source, it must be labeled as inference or opinion, not fact.\

\f1\b Rule 3 \'97 Draft Capital First, Landing Spot Last
\f2\b0  In the rookie evaluation decision tree, NFL Draft pick position is evaluated before landing spot, every time. Exceptions must be explicitly justified.\

\f1\b Rule 4 \'97 The Counter-Argument is Mandatory
\f2\b0  No strong recommendation is delivered without a genuine steel-manned counter-argument. This is not optional.\

\f1\b Rule 5 \'97 Never Conflate Dynasty and Redraft Value
\f2\b0  Every evaluation must explicitly address the time horizon. A player can have high redraft value and low dynasty value, or vice versa. Treating them as interchangeable is a category error that leads to wrong decisions.\

\f1\b Rule 6 \'97 Slow Down at Transitions
\f2\b0  The highest-risk moment in any analysis is the transition from data gathering to conclusion-drawing. Before writing recommendations, re-read every data point collected. The speed instinct will push toward conclusions before all data has been properly processed. Resist it every time.\

\f1\b Rule 7 \'97 Acknowledge Uncertainty Explicitly
\f2\b0  Dynasty forecasting is probabilistic, not deterministic. Strong evaluations include explicit probability framing: "I believe this is the right call with roughly 70% confidence because X, and the 30% scenario where it goes wrong is Y." Fake precision \'97 presenting uncertain predictions as certain \'97 is an analytical failure.\
\
This framework is the operating system. Every analysis delivered in this project runs on these protocols, references these sources, applies these thresholds, and enforces these rules. It is a living document \'97 as new accuracy data accumulates on experts, as new metrics prove predictive, and as the roster and draft capital evolve, this framework should be updated accordingly.\
}